---
page_title: "Provider: F5XC"
description: |-
    Provides auxiliary resources for working with F5 Distributed Cloud that are not  present in the provider published by F5.
---
# F5XC Provider

Provides auxiliary resources for working with F5 Distributed Cloud that are not  present in the provider published by F5.

> DISCLAIMER: This provider is not an official F5, Inc. product and is not endorsed by F5 or covered by any F5 support
> policy.

## Authentication

The f5xc provider requires authentication to the F5 Distributed Cloud API to retreive policies and
documents, and the URL assigned to your tenant. These values can be explicitly declared in the `provider` block or they
can be infered from environment variables.

Although the `url` attribute is marked as *optional*, the *base API URL that is assigned to your tenant must be provided
either as a block attribute or through `VOLT_API_URL` environment variable*.

### Using PKCS#12 bundle

After generating and downloading a [p12] file from F5 Distributed Cloud console the f5xc provider can
be configured using the `api_p12_file` attribute or `VOLT_API_P12_FILE` environment variable.

NOTE: To avoid disclosing the passphrase accidentally the provider requires that `VES_P12_PASSWORD` environment variable
contains the passphrase to unlock the PKCS#12 certificate.

```terraform
# Configure F5XC client to authenticate to API using PKCS#12 file downloaded from console.
# NOTE: The VES_P12_PASSWORD environment variable must contain the passphrase associated with the P12 file.
provider "f5xc" {
  api_p12_file = "/path/to/auth.p12"
  url          = "https://tenant.console.ves.volterra.io/api"
}
```

### Using a x509 certificate and key pair

You can choose to unlock and split the [p12] file into an x509 certificate and key pair, and use those to authenticate
to F5 Distributed Cloud. Ensure the certificate and key are PEM encoded before trying to authenticate with them.

```terraform
# Configure F5XC client to authenticate to API using x509 certificate and key PEM files extracted from p12.
provider "f5xc" {
  api_cert = "/path/to/cert.pem"
  api_Key  = "/path/to/key.pem"
  url      = "https://tenant.console.ves.volterra.io/api"
}
```

The environment variables `VOLT_API_CERT` and `VOLT_API_KEY` can be used to set the x509 certificate and key attributes,
respectively.

### Using an API token

The final option uses an API [token] generated from the F5 Distributed Cloud console.

NOTE: Using and declaring an API token explicitly in the provider block risks exposing access to the API to anyone able
to read the Terraform file containing the declaration. Token authentication should only be used with a short-lived token,
and preferably through the use of `VOLTERRA_TOKEN` environment variable.

```terraform
# Configure F5XC client to authenticate to API using token downloaded from console.
provider "f5xc" {
  api_token = "...base64 API token..."
  url       = "https://tenant.console.ves.volterra.io/api"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `api_cert` (String) Path to a PEM encoded x509 certificate file used to authenticate to F5 Distributed Cloud, can also be set using `VOLT_API_CERT` environment variable.
- `api_key` (String) Path to a PEM encoded x509 key file used to authenticate to F5 Distributed Cloud, can also be set using `VOLT_API_KEY` environment variable.
- `api_p12_file` (String) Path to a PKCS#12 file used to authenticate to F5 Distributed Cloud, can also be set using `VOLT_API_P12_FILE` environment variable.
- `api_token` (String) An API token used to authenticate to F5 Distributed Cloud, can also be set using `VOLTERRA_TOKEN` environment variable.
- `timeout` (String) The timeout to apply when making API requests to F5 Distributed Cloud, can also be set using `VOLT_API_TIMEOUT` environment variable.
- `url` (String) The F5 Distributed Cloud API URL assigned to your tenant, can also be set using `VOLT_API_URL` environment variable.

[p12]: https://docs.cloud.f5.com/docs/how-to/user-mgmt/credentials#generate-api-certificate
[token]: https://docs.cloud.f5.com/docs/how-to/user-mgmt/credentials#generate-api-tokens
